# Description of the Scoot Dataset

Description of the SCOOT dataset, based on information available on the github page (https://github.com/BirminghamRealTime/UTMCTools/blob/master/description.md) and SCOOT website (http://www.scoot-utc.com).

The dataset includes data collected from the SCOOT (Split Cycle Offset Optimisation Technique) system, specifically data about the SCOOT links, which are generally between two signalised junctions.   Information about how SCOOT works in general to automatically control traffic signals is available on the website (http://www.scoot-utc.com).  

Briefly, the system works by detecting vehicles at the start of each approach to every controlled intersection'' usually through the use of induction loops. This data is then used by a model to control the traffic signals, usually in terms of the amount of green for each approach (Split), the time between adjacent signals (Offset) and the time allowed for all approaches to a signalled intersection (Cycle time).

The description of attributes below is based on the JSON encoding of the dataset (butc.opendata.onl/AL_opendata/scoot.json); the XML encoding uses a similar format.  Column headers for tabular formats (XLS, XLSX, CSV) are included in brackets following the JSON attribute path.  All quotes below are from the SCOOT website, typically page describing ASTRID the Automatic SCOOT Traffic Information Database (http://www.scoot-utc.com/ASTRID.php)

Each item in the SCOOT dataset is described in terms of the following attributes:
- **SCN** - a unique identifier value for the SCOOT link. 
(Description, which is always blank.
- **Easting and Northing** - providing a location associated with the link, although these values may be 0 which is not a valid location.
- **Date** - when the data were generated by the SCOOT system. 
- **Flow** - flow in vehicles per hour travelling over the link derived from detectors.
- **Speed** - Information about the average speed at a link over the preceding five minutes, derived from link length, a pre-measured cruise time for the link and vehicle delay. 
- **Occupancy** - Information about the detector occupancy. A value for the occupancy of a detector calculated by taking the total number of quarter-seconds for which the detector is occupied as a percentage of the whole period.
- **Time** - Information about the travel time over a link. An estimate of the time a typical vehicle takes to travel along a (SCOOT) link at an average speed. The **Time** value is obtained by adding vehicle delay *[an estimate of delay encountered by vehicles on a link]* to the pre-measured 'cruise' time of vehicles between a SCOOT detector and stopline. In the JSON feed, each Time item is described with the following properties:
- **Content** *(**Time** in tabular versions of the dataset)* - Numeric, positive integers, providing the travel time (in seconds) over the SCOOT link, as calculated by the SCOOT system.
- **Type** *(**Time_Type** in tabular versions of the dataset)* – Numeric, typically 0.  Unclear what this represents. 
- **Status** *(**Time_Status** in tabular versions of the dataset)* – Numeric, either 0 or 1, possibly indicating false or true, unclear what this represents. 
